Michael the first.
I want to thank you for giving
us the opportunity.
It is a pleasure to be with you.
It is a real luck to be here with you.
Your trajectory is unique.
You are a star in this.
You have a lot to tell and I think
it’s a lucky thing for Power
MBA students to learn from you,
which is what it’s all about
after all.
I would love to tell us how
your career as a serial entrepreneur
has been, with many success cases,
and we will end up having
a series of tips or tips for
many of our students who dream
of a day to undertake,
step forward, be brave
and succeed.
and perfect.
Thank you Borja and thank you for
your words.
I don’t deserve it and I’m almost
going to put myself red.
But I have been lucky to have
very good teams in all the
projects that are the key to
success and are the ones who
truly have the merit in
everything we have done.
And effectively, as you say, I like
to undertake and that’s why after
my first company I started in 2009
bringing the concept of coupons
to Spain when I created Les Bonus.
And then we had a huge growth with
operations in six countries,
600 people.
We have gone from zero customers
in two years to over 20 million
newsletters customers worldwide.
I often like to do it and it
puts me in.
And I would also recommend to
all your students, which is
a vital and unique personal and
professional experience, how to
do an MBA with you, in the
sense that I put you an example.
I worked in a multinational company,
I was as a general manager in
a company.
He was a company with a turnover of
200 million euros and a team of more
than 300 people in several countries.
I have always wanted to be an entrepreneur.
I did not come from a business family
because my parents were civil servants.
Therefore, you don’t have to have
it in the genes, as someone says,
it’s simply the need to pursue
your dream.
It is clear, it is not my case.
I had the need to create a
project for me.
I also studied, I did my MBA,
I worked several years in the
corporate world, but instead
of spending my money on cars or
luxury, I saved money to set up
my own company.
The jump is complex.
He was over 30 years old and a child
on the way.
I always compare it to the
experience of a movie I like so
much, which is the Matrix movie,
in that scene that Morfeo
tells Neo.
You have two paths.
The blue pill, where you’ll work
for a large multinational,
you’ll be on vacation,
you’ll have support and innovation.
General security.
Although there is nothing certain
today, you have as an organization
the support of an organization.
Then you have the red pill.
If you get fired, you are dismissed.
exactly to.
You are standing.
And those things.
You are in theory on vacation.
And then you have the red pill, which
is the one to undertake, where you
don’t know if your company will exist
tomorrow, if you can pay the fee
at the end of the month, you won’
t have holidays or weekends,
but you will be the owner of your
own destiny.
So, well, then I am in a kind of
madness, because to undertake you
have to have a little of that passion
of that madness, because I decided
to take the red pill.
I remember then when I told my mother,
that she also had a son on the
way who is a civil servant,
who left a job, I earned
my life very well, because
to mount a thing on the internet.
But when I started and discount
coupons.
The year?
This was in 2009.
We were the first to introduce the
concept of coupons to Europe.
Was the group growing?
No, no, Group in the United States,
and we are the first to launch
it in Europe.
And then, well, you’re crazy,
what are you doing,
right?
But well, in this madness,
let’s say, we launched the
company, and the truth was a
very positive experience, and very
quickly, after two years we had
already sold the company.
We did a good deal, a company participated
by Amazon, and, well, since
then you committed
me a while with them, a few
months.
Did you sell in two years?
In two years I sold from zero.
From zero, practically 20 million
subscribers, 600 people, presence
in six countries.
I was very quick, I turned the clock,
in the morning I was going to Europe,
in the afternoons Latam, and
in the nights of bandar pasta
in the United States.
I imagine that two years later, it
is happening to us a little too,
it is as if it seems impossible
for you that so little time has passed,
because so many things have
happened to you.
Absolutely of course.
How is it possible?
It seems physically impossible, right?
Absolutely of course.
You don’t realize and you get into
that vortex of adrenaline, of
enjoyment and growth, and it was tremendous.
And then, when I sold the company,
after that period that one always
stays, let’s say, that was less than
a year, because I say, well, and
now what do I do?
I say, because now I am mounting my
own capital fund, I am dedicated
to investing in startups, I take,
as it was very hard and very tired
at the personal level and so, I take
a period of two years, a long vacation
time, and I said, well, because
I took a vacation, and when it
took two weeks, at the end I thought,
but if I really what I am interested
in is this to undertake, the
adrenaline is to throw it
to zero companies and see it
grow, right?
And then it was when, I called, we
talked to Gerard, who had already
worked with him and we knew
because he had a very powerful
online marketing agency in Barcelona,
and we decided to launch
Antaim together, let’s say, as
a factory of companies, to continue
doing it in an industrial way, if
you want, because what we already
had, let’s say, the experience,
and then we decided to launch
Antaim with that, with the aim
of continuing to undertake, that
in the end is what puts me,
because undertaking is like
a drug, and when you take the
red pill, let’s say, you can’
t go back.